Let's now talk about
the hyper parameters that
relate to the model itself
rather than the training
or optimization process.
The number of hidden
units, in particular,
is the parameter I felt was
the most mysterious when
I started learning
about machine learning.
The main requirement here is
to set a number of hidden units
that is quote
unquote large enough.
For a neural network to learn
to approximate a function
or a prediction task, it needs
to have enough quote unquote
capacity to learn the function.
The more complex the
function, the more
learning capacity
the model will need.
The number and architecture
of the hidden units
is the main measure for a
model's learning capacity.
If we provide the model
with too much capacity,
however, it might tend
to overfit and just try
to memorize the training set.
If you find your model
overfitting your data
meaning that the
training accuracy is
much better than the
validation accuracy,
you might want to
try to decrease
the number of hidden units.
You could also utilize
regularization techniques
like dropout or
L2 regularization.
So as far as number of units is
concerned, the more the better.
A little larger than the
ideal number is not a problem,
but a much larger
value can often
lead to the model overfitting.
So if your model
is not training,
add more hidden units and
track validation error.
Keep adding hidden units
until the validation
starts getting worse.
Another heuristic involving
the first hidden layer
is that setting it to a
number larger than the number
of the inputs has
been observed to be
beneficial in a number of tasks.
What about the number of layers?
Andrej Karpathy tells
us that in practice it's
often the case that
a three layer neural
net will outperform
a two layer net,
but going even deeper
rarely helps much more.
The exception to this is
convolutional neural networks
where the deeper they are,
the better they perform.